CSS Module: backgrounds and borders (#24123)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_backgrounds_and_borders/index.md

---

> title: Backgrounds and borders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: CSS backgrounds and borders
```

I guess we're keeping the 'CSS' bit like in the 'animations' and 'composting and blending' landing pages.

{{CSSRef}}

> The **CSS backgrounds and borders** module provides for adding borders, rounded corners, and box shadows to elements. The module also provides for setting whether cells inside a {{HTMLElement("table")}} have shared or separate borders.
> 
> The module provides for many border styles, including properties to create borders made of images of any image type, from raster images to CSS gradients. Borders can be square or rounded, including providing different radii for each corner. Elements can be rounded whether or not they have a visible border.
> 
> Box shadows include inset and outset shadow, single or multiple shadows, and solid or allowed to fade to transparent. An outer box-shadow casts a shadow as if the border-box of the element were opaque. An inner box-shadow casts a shadow as if everything outside the padding edge were opaque. The shadow can be solid or include a spread distance with the shadow color transitioning to transparent.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **CSS backgrounds and borders** module provides properties for adding borders, rounded corners, and box shadows to elements.

You can add different types of border styles, including borders made of images of any image type, from raster images to CSS gradients. Borders can be square or rounded, and a different radius can be set for each corner. Elements can be rounded whether or not they have a visible border.

Box shadows include inset and outset shadow, single or multiple shadows, and solid or allowed to fade to transparent. An outer box-shadow casts a shadow as if the border-box of the element were opaque. An inner box-shadow casts a shadow as if everything outside the padding edge were opaque. The shadow can be solid or include a spread distance with the shadow color transitioning to transparent.

The properties in this module also let you define whether cells inside a {{HTMLElement("table")}} should have shared or separate borders.

```
This is more a stylistic edit. The first sentence mentions borders, corners, and box shadows. So I have followed up the first sentence with the related sentences in the same order. Moved the table bit to the end.
Also rephrased some sentences to avoid repetition of 'this module'.

### Backgrounds, borders, and box shadows in action

> This sample of borders, backgrounds, and box shadows consists of centered background images made of linear and radial gradients and a series of box shadows that make the border appear to "pop." The first sample has a border image set. The second sample has a rounded dotted border.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample of borders, backgrounds, and box shadows consists of centered background images made of linear and radial gradients. A series of box shadows make the border appear to "pop". The element on the left has a border image set. The element on the right has a rounded dotted border.
```
Splitting the long sentence

<article>
<div></div>
<div></div>
</article>
```

```css hidden
article {display: flex; gap: 10px;}
div {
  color: #58ADE3;
  height: 320px;
  width: 240px;
  padding: 20px;
  margin: 10px;
  border: dotted 15px; /* defaults to `currentcolor` */
  border-radius: 100px 0;
  background-image: 
    radial-gradient(circle, transparent 60%, currentcolor 60% 70%,transparent 70% ), 
    linear-gradient(45deg, currentcolor, white),
    linear-gradient(transparent, transparent);
    /* the third transparent background image was added to provide space for the background color to show through */
  background-color: currentcolor;
  background-position: center;
  background-size: 60px 60px, 120px 120px;
  background-clip: content-box, content-box, padding-box; 
  box-shadow: 
    inset 5px 5px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.4), 
    inset -5px -5px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.4),
    5px 5px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.4), 
    -5px -5px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.4);
}
div:first-of-type {
  border-radius: 0;
  border-image-source: repeating-conic-gradient(from 3deg at 25% 25%, currentColor 0 3deg, transparent 3deg 6deg);
  border-image-slice: 30;
}
```

{{ EmbedLiveSample('Backgrounds_borders_and_box_shadows_in_action', "450", "450") }}

> The background images are defined with {{cssxref("background-image")}}. The images are centered with {{cssxref("background-position")}}. Different values of the {{cssxref("background-clip")}} property for the multiple background images are employed to make the background images stay within the content box, while the background color gets clipped to the padding box; prevention the background from appearing thru transparent sections for the {{cssxref("border-image")}} and {{cssxref("border-style", "dotted")}} {{cssxref("border")}}. The rounded corners on the second sample were created using the {{cssxref("border-radius")}}property. A single {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} declaration set all the shadows, both inset and outset. To see the code for this background, borders, and box-shadow samples, [view the source on Github](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/files/en-us/web/css/compositing_and_blending/index.md?plain=1).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The background images are defined with {{cssxref("background-image")}}. The images are centered with {{cssxref("background-position")}}. Different values of the {{cssxref("background-clip")}} property for the multiple background images are used to make the background images stay within the content box. The background color gets clipped to the padding box preventing the background from appearing through the transparent sections for the {{cssxref("border-image")}} and the {{cssxref("border-style", "dotted")}} {{cssxref("border")}}. The rounded corners in the element on the right are created using the {{cssxref("border-radius")}} property. A single {{cssxref("box-shadow")}} declaration is used to set all the shadows, both inset and outset. To see the code for this sample, [view the source on Github](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/files/en-us/web/css/compositing_and_blending/index.md?plain=1).
```

- {{cssxref("border-left-color")}}
- {{cssxref("border-left-style")}}
- {{cssxref("border-left-width")}}
- {{cssxref("border-left")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border-right-color")}}
- {{cssxref("border-right-style")}}
- {{cssxref("border-right-width")}}
- {{cssxref("border-right")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border-top-color")}}
- {{cssxref("border-top-style")}}
- {{cssxref("border-top-width")}}
- {{cssxref("border-top")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border-color")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border-style")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border-width")}} shorthand
- {{cssxref("border")}} shorthand

- {{cssxref("border-collapse")}}

- {{cssxref("border-bottom-left-radius")}}
- {{cssxref("border-bottom-right-radius")}}
- {{cssxref("border-top-left-radius")}}
- {{cssxref("border-top-right-radius")}}
- {{cssxref("border-radius")}} shorthand

- {{cssxref("border-image-outset")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-repeat")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-slice")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-source")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-width")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image")}} shorthand

- {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}

## Guides

- [Learn CSS: background and borders](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Backgrounds_and_borders)

>   - : Learn how to implement decorative images using CSS background images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Explains how to implement decorative images using CSS background images.
```
for consistency with other descriptions in this list

Could we add a similar phrasing to the animations page: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations#guides

- [Using multiple backgrounds](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Using_multiple_backgrounds)
  - : Explains how to set one or more backgrounds on an element.
- [Resizing background images](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Resizing_background_images)
  - : Describes how to change the size and repeating behavior of background images.
- [Learn CSS: the box model](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)

>   - : Explains how borders, along with other box model properties, impact the CSS box model.

Reviewer: Do you want to move this right after 'Learn CSS: background and borders' so that all learn links are together?

Author: This one is more tangentially related to this module, which is why I didn't put it second.

- [Using CSS gradients](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Images/Using_CSS_gradients)
  - : Explains how to create CSS gradient background images.

## Related concepts

> - {{cssxref("border-block-end-color")}} CSS property

Reviewer: The 'CSS' in 'CSS property' seems a bit repetitive. Can it be dropped?

If yes, then probably these would need to be updated as well: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Compositing_and_Blending#related_concepts and https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Animations#related_concepts

```suggestion
- {{cssxref("border-block-end-color")}} property
```

- {{cssxref("border-start-start-radius")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("border-start-end-radius")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("border-end-start-radius")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("border-end-end-radius ")}} CSS property

- {{cssxref("box-sizing")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("box-decoration-break")}} CSS property
- {{cssxref("text-shadow")}} CSS property

- {{cssxref("url()")}} CSS function
- [`<color>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color) data type
- [`<image>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/image) data type
- [`<position>`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/position) data type

- [`currentcolor`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/color_value#currentcolor_keyword) keyword

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## See also

- Interactive tools that let you visually create borders images, rounded corners, and box shadows:
  - [Border-image generator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Border-image_generator)
  - [Border-radius generator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Border-radius_generator)
  - [Box-shadow generator](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Box-shadow_generator)
- [Applying color to HTML elements using CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Colors/Applying_color), including for borders.

> - The [`drop-shadow()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter-function/drop-shadow) filter function, used by the {{cssxref("filter")}} and {{cssxref("backdrop-filter")}} properties, applies a drop shadow effect to the input image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`drop-shadow()`](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/filter-function/drop-shadow) filter function that applies a drop shadow effect to the input image. The function is used by the {{cssxref("filter")}} and {{cssxref("backdrop-filter")}} properties.
```

- {{cssxref("border-image-outset")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-repeat")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-slice")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-source")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image-width")}}
- {{cssxref("border-image")}} shorthand

- {{cssxref("box-shadow")}}

## Guides

- [Learn CSS: background and borders](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Backgrounds_and_borders)
  - : Explains how to implement decorative images using CSS background images.
- [Using multiple backgrounds](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Using_multiple_backgrounds)
  - : Explains how to set one or more backgrounds on an element.
- [Resizing background images](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Backgrounds_and_Borders/Resizing_background_images)
  - : Describes how to change the size and repeating behavior of background images.
- [Learn CSS: the box model](/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/The_box_model)
  - : Explains how borders, along with other box model properties, impact the CSS box model.
- [Using CSS gradients](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Images/Using_CSS_gradients)
  - : Explains how to create CSS gradient background images.

## Related concepts

- {{cssxref("border-block-end-color")}} property

> - {{cssxref("border-block-start-color")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-end-color")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-start-color")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-block-end-style")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-block-start-style")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-end-style")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-start-style")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-block-end-width")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-block-start-width")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-end-width")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-inline-start-width")}} CSS property
> 
> - {{cssxref("border-start-start-radius")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-start-end-radius")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-end-start-radius")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("border-end-end-radius ")}} CSS property
> 
> - {{cssxref("box-sizing")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("box-decoration-break")}} CSS property
> - {{cssxref("text-shadow")}} CSS property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- {{cssxref("border-block-start-color")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-end-color")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-start-color")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-block-end-style")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-block-start-style")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-end-style")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-start-style")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-block-end-width")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-block-start-width")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-end-width")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-inline-start-width")}} property

- {{cssxref("border-start-start-radius")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-start-end-radius")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-end-start-radius")}} property
- {{cssxref("border-end-end-radius ")}} property

- {{cssxref("box-sizing")}} property
- {{cssxref("box-decoration-break")}} property
- {{cssxref("text-shadow")}} property
```
